Q: Can a constructor or destructor be a const function? 
A: no

Q: Can a constructor initilize a const object?
A: yes!
The 'constness' of a const object is enforced from the time the contructor COMPLETES
initialization of the object until that object's destructor is called.
const object (or vars) are instantiated with initializers 

Q: what are const member function?
A: A const member function is defined for example as 
double CommissionEmployee::getCommissionRate() const 
{
    return commissionRate;
}
const member function cannot call non-const function
can be used on 
const object

Q: Are contructor inherited?
A: no! Each class needs to provide a constructor!

Q: What is a copy constructor?
A: A friend function? that takes an object as a parameter and returns a reference to a new object
of the same class as its object argument. The private data member of the new object 
have the same value as those of the object passed as arg.

Q: Do every class have a copy constructor?
A: Yes. If none are explicily declared, the compiler will provide a default one.
Beware of object construction which requires allocation of memory (malloc, calloc type)
Beware of pointers.

Q: What is a static object?
A non-automatic object!
Initialized only once, when the definiteion is first read
Destructed once, at the end of the main

Q: Can object be globals?
Yes. In which case, they are instantiated BEFORE the main is executed!
The are Destructed at the very end of the program (after the main exit)

Q: When are destructors of static object run?
A: When the main exits.
!!! a call to exit runs only the static and global destructor (not the automatic variable)

Q: What are initializers?
MyClass::MyClass(int c, int i)
    : count (c), increment (i)
{
}

!!! A const (private) data member is REQUIRED to have an initializer

Q: When do initializers execute?
A: before the body of the constructor execute!

Q: What is a composition?
A: A class can contain instance of other classes.
This instances can also use initializer in the for of copy constructor!

Q: What is a friend function?
A: A C-style function declared at the same time as the class it 'befriended'
A friend function can have access to private (and protected) data member of that class.
A friend function is NOT a member of that class.
A object is passed as a parameter of that fucntion.

Q: Are friend function inherited?
A: No, they are not class members!

Q: What is 'this'?
A: Every object has access to its own address through a pointer called this!
'this' is a pointer, but is not part of the object itself!
'this' is a const pointer on a non-constant object (itself!)

Q: Who provides the value for 'this'?
A: The compiler does. The compiles pass the pointer this as a parameter to every member function, but STATIC ones.

Q: In which case is 'this' a 'const Object * const' ?
A: In a constant member function (where the object cannot be modified)

Q: How do you implement cascaded function calls?
A: Each function call should return a reference to this (return *this)

Q: what is a static data member or static function member?
A: static data member is a data member that is share by all the instance 
ex: numberOfInstance
A static function member is usually an accessor to that static data member
The keywords static only appears in the interface (include h), not in the class declaration (cpp)

Q: what is particularity of a static data member or static function member?
A: They can be accessed without an instance
eg: MyClass::MyStaticFunction()
!!! static function DO NOT HAVE 'this' pointer !

Q: what is a proxy class?
A: A class used as an interface to hide the private data of another class.
That private data would normally appear in the include file (even so it is not in use)

Q: What is operator overloading?
A: C++ does NOT allow new operators to be created, 
but it does allow most existing operators to be overloaded so that,
when they are used with objects, they have a meaning appropriate to those objecs.
==> use a non-static member function

Q: What is function overloading?
A: For example, doTask() and doTask(object O) are overloaded methods. 
To call the latter, an object must be passed as a parameter, whereas the former does not require a parameter, and is called with an empty parameter field. 
A common error would be to assign a default value to the object in the second method, which would result in an ambiguous call error, as the compiler wouldn't know which of the two methods to use.
==> name mangling

Q: What is name mangling?
A: The preprocessor change the function name based on its arguments to allow for overloading

Q: What is function overridding?
A: Redefining a function (same prototype) in the derived class

Q: WHat is the difference between overloading and overwriting?
overwriting relates to the inheritance of member functions
overloading means repurposing

Q: What are the difference between a static variable, a static object, a static data member, a static member function?
A: static is opposed to automatic (or default behavior)
A static variable come from C. Are defined and initialize only once. The memory allocation is free'd at the end of the main
A static object is similar to a static variable, except they use constructor and destructor
A static data member is a variable shared by every instance (ex: number of instance created). 
Accessible (if public) even if no instance is created.  MyClass::MyVariable
A static member function is accessible through the class MyClass::MyFucntion() and is independent from the intance
That means doesn't have a this pointer passed as by the compiler.

Q: What are base class, derived class, inheritance?
A: base class = super class
derived class = subclass
inheritance is a way to use code reuse
the code only appears in the base class and is automatically inserted in subclass as we go.
==> easier to maintain, debug, modify, etc... because the source code exists only in 2 files (h and cpp of base class)

Q: In a class interface, what is public vs private?
An object expose all its public data members and function member to the world!
The private data/function members are only accessible by the object itself
(in the code of its member functions)

Q: In a class interface, what does protected means?
Protected is an intermediary access right between public and private.
It comes into play with inheritance.
Indeed, a derived class cannot access private members of its base class!    <-- WHAOO !!!
To allow a derived class to access non-public members, that member needs to be declared as protected!
An alternative is to use getters and setters (mutator and accessor) for every private data. (but beware of overhead due to function calls)

Q: when is protected data member an issue? What is the purpose of mutators and accessor (getter and setter)?
VALIDATION !
+ access of private data?
If you change the name of the var, you need to go through the code of all the derived classes.

Q: When to use private over protected?
when validation is required!
When the name of the data member can change (but the mutator and accessor won't!)
==> If base class is also heavily developed!

Q: In a class interface, can a function be protected?
Private functions are utility/helper function.
If you want that fucntion to be accessible from the derived class, then ...
??? IS THAT TRUE ???
==> no getter or setter possible for private function!

Q: What is an overridden function?
A function declared in a subclass (interface+definition) that overwrites a function with the same name + same argument + same return value as in the base class
??? if you do not use the same arguments type, the member function is not overridden, it is a different one! ??? check name mangling

Q: what is the size of an empty object?
A: 1 byte !
Quoting Bjarne Stroustrup's C++ Style and Technique FAQ, the reason the size is non-zero is "To ensure that the addresses of two different objects will be different." 
And the size can be 1 because alignment doesn't matter here, as there is nothing to actually look at.

Q: What is a size of an object with NO data member (and only member functions)?
A: 1 byte!
The size of the object is proportional to its data members!

Q: What is a vtable?
A: A object contains its data. Additionally, there is a pointer on a vtable.
A vtable is a structure of pointers on functions. Those functions are the functions to be run when a member function is called.
ex: The salariedEmployee object contains a pointer to the SalariedEmployee vtable; the object also contains the values John Smith, 111-11-1111 an $800.00.

Q: Can a derived-class pointer points to a base class object?
A: No, compilation error

Q: Can a base-class pointer points to a derived class?
A: Yes, but only base-class functions can be called by default.
??? What about overridden functions ??? They cannot be accessed unless the function is declared as virtual!
If you want to call derived-class member functions, you need to use DOWNCASTING

Q: what is downcasting?
A: Read answer to above question.
But beware, downcasting is dangerous!
The preferred method is to use virtual functions

Q: Why would a function be declared as virtual in a base-class?
A: To avoid downcasting ! In otherwords, a base-class pointer that points to a derived-class object
CAN call derived-class functions.
==> The program determine at runtime which class member function to call  ( = LATE BINDING, DYNAMIC BINDING!)
==> The called functions are not from the class of the pointer, but from the class of the object

Q: What is the scope of the virtual keyword?
A: Once a function is declared virtual, it remains virtual all the way down the inheritance hierarchy 
from that point, even if that dunction is not explicitly declared virtual when a derived class overrides it.
==> specify virtual at every level for program clarity!

Q: What is DYNAMIC/LATE binding and STATIC binding?
static dbinding = the function invocation is resolved at compile time
dynamic binding (with virtual function)= occurs only off pointer (and reference) handles

Q: What is polymorphic behavior?
basePtr->print()
The same message -- print, in this case -- sent (off a base class pointer/or reference) to a variatey of 
objects related by inheritance to that case class, takes on many forms.
This is polmorphic behavior.

Q: What are abstract classes?
A: classes which will never instantiate any object
Abstract base classes are too generic to define real objects.
we need to be more specific before we can think of instantiating objects
(Are used as base-class in inheritance hierarchy)
They are the opposite of concrete classes!
ex: 2-d shape class
if draw is called, which shape should you draw? round? quare? triangle? You can't!

Abstract classes, although optional, are found  at the top of the class hierarchy.
A class is abstract if one of this member function is pure virtual (see below)
ABSTRACT CLASSES ARE USED TO DEFINE AN INTERFACE (ex: read/write of a driver!)

Q: Can abstract class pointer be created?
A: YES! This is use with polymorphism!

Q: What are pure virtual function?
A: A class is made abstract by declaring one or more of its virtual functions to be "pure"
A pure virtual function is specified by placing "=0" in its declaration, as in
virtual void draw() const =0;       // pure virtual fucntion

Q: What is a pure specifier?
A: The "=0" is a pure specifier!

Q: What is the difference between a virtual and pure virtual function?
pure virtual: the base class doesn't provide an implementation, the CONCRETE derived class MUST override all the virtual function of the abstract class
ex: class 2dShape: virtual void draw() const =0
virtual: the base class provide an implementation
ex: class 2dshape: virtual void getName() const
Here virtual because base class implmentation is default

Q: How is polymorphism implemented?
A: Three levels of Pointers to implement polymorphism.
1/ pointer on the object (could also be reference)
2/ object has a pointer on a vtable
3/ vtable has a pointer on the function

Q: What is a virtual destructor?
A: A desctructor that can be used when polymorphism is used.
!!! Note that the base-class destructor and derived-class destructor do not have the same name !!!
Detruction is done explicitly with the 'delete' command

Q: If destructor can be virtual, can constructor be virtual?
A: No!


Q: Can a function template be overloaded by providing a nontemplate functions?
Yes! the pre-compiler looks for an explicit function, then try to build it with the available templates

Q: What are template class?
ex: vector<int> myvector(4)         <-- vector of 4 * int
A class whose member function are class templates!

Q: What are exception?
Exception handling is designed to process synchromous errors, which occur when a statment executes
eg dividion by zero
Exception handling is not designed to process errors associated with asynchronous events 
eg disk IO completions, network message arrival, mouse click, leystrokes

Q: When to use exception?

Q: What is the Standard template library (STL)?
A: template library part of the C++ standard which are use for commonly used object (eg vector, list, queue, set, map, etc)

Q: What is const-ness?

Q: What method do you know that can change the const-ness?
A: 
1/ const_cast, 
2/ mutable 

Q: What is multiple ineritance?
Q: what is a virtual base?
A: Diamond double inheritance without confusion
