Q: Account?
emayssat@gmail
Tom...


Q: What is IAAS ?
Infrastructure as a service (hardware virtualization)
ec2 is IAAS 

Q: What is PAAS?
Platform as a service.
Abstract all the system administration and scalability.

Q: What is SAAS?
Software as a service
gmail is SAAS (freemium + business model)

Q: Amazon offering?
EC2         - Amazon Elastic Cloud Compute
S3          - Amazon Simple Storage Service
EBS         - Amazon Elastic Block Store
SNS         - Amazon Simple Notification Service
...
CloudFront  - 1 static repository is mirrored at severael geographical locations (closer to end user)

Q: What is EC2?
EC2 Instances let you pay for compute capacity by the hour with no long term commitments. 
This transforms what are commonly large fixed costs into much smaller variable costs. 

Q: What is EBS?
~ virtual hard disk
Amazon Elastic Block Store (EBS) provides block level storage volumes for use with Amazon EC2 instances. 
Amazon EBS volumes are network-attached, and persist independently from the life of an instance. 
Amazon EBS provides highly available, highly reliable, predictable storage volumes 
that can be attached to a running Amazon EC2 instance and exposed as a device within the instance. 
Amazon EBS is particularly suited for applications that require a database, 
file system, or access to raw block level storage.
!!! EBS volumes are managed in the EC2 Management interface

Q: What is S3?
~ Gobal filesystem
Amazon S3 provides a simple web services interface that can be used to store and retrieve 
any amount of data, at any time, from anywhere on the web. 
It gives any developer access to the same highly scalable, reliable, fast, inexpensive 
data storage infrastructure that Amazon uses to run its own global network of web sites.

Q Difference between EBS and S3?
EBS volumes can only be accessed from an EC2 instance in the same availability zone 
whereas snapshots on S3 can be accessed from any availability zone.
S3 is subject to “eventual consistency”  which means that there may be a delay 
in writes appearing in the system whereas EBS has no consistency delays. 
Also EBS can only be accessed by one machine at a time whereas snapshots on S3 can be shared.
More @ http://www.cloudiquity.com/2009/03/differences-between-s3-and-ebs/

Q: What is SNS?
Amazon SNS provides a simple web services interface and browser-based Management Console 
that can be used to create topics you want to notify applications (or people) about, 
subscribe clients to these topics, publish messages, and have these messages delivered 
over clients’ protocol of choice (i.e. HTTP, email, SMS, etc.). 
Amazon SNS delivers notifications to clients using a “push” mechanism that eliminates 
the need to periodically check or “poll” for new information and updates.

Q: What is Amazon CloudFront?
In Amazon CloudFront, your content is organized into distributions. 
A distribution specifies the location or locations of the original version of your files. 
A distribution has a unique CloudFront.net domain name (e.g. abc123.cloudfront.net) 
that you can use to reference your objects through the global network of edge locations. 
If you wish, you can also map your own domain name (e.g. www.example.com) to your distribution. 
You can create distributions to either download your content using the HTTP or HTTPS protocols, 
or stream your content using the RTMP protocol.

